[CC 1.0.0] Choreo connect Custom Filter Implementation [4.0.0] (#5142)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/extensions/custom-filters.md

# Add Custom Filters
Filters is a set of execution points in the request flow that intercept the request before it goes to the 

> backend service. They are engaged while the request is processed within the enforcer. The defined set of filters 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
backend service. They are engaged while the request is processed within the Enforcer. The defined set of filters 
```

are applied to all the APIs deployed in Choreo Connect. These filters are engaged inline and if the request
fails at a certain filter, the request will not be forwarded to the next filter and the backend. 
The inbuilt set of filters are the authentication filter and the throttling filter.

> Custom filters can be added to the existing filters within the enforcer, and they can be positioned based on the end user's preference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom filters can be added to the existing filters within the Enforcer, and they can be positioned based on the end user's preference.
```

These filters are engaged for all the APIs deployed within Choreo Connect.

Choreo Connect provides a Java interface to implement custom filters. Then the developer needs to compile the

> filter implementation as a JAR file and mount it to the `/home/wso2/lib/dropins` directory within the enforcer. When

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filter implementation as a JAR file and mount it to the `/home/wso2/lib/dropins` directory within the Enforcer. When
```

> the enforcer starts, the JAR files in that directory are added to the classpath. Using Java Service Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Enforcer starts, the JAR files in that directory are added to the classpath. Using Java Service Provider
```

> Interface, the classloading happens in the enforcer. See the following sections for further details on how to implement this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interface, the classloading happens in the Enforcer. See the following sections for further details on how to implement this.
```

    
        boolean handleRequest(RequestContext requestContext);
    }
    ```

    Here is the sample filter implementation that reads the property called `CustomProperty` from Filter 
    Configuration and adds it as a header to the request.

    ```java
    package org.example.tests;
    
    import org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.model.APIConfig;
    import org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.model.RequestContext;
    import org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.Filter;
    
    import java.util.Map;
    
    public class CustomFilter implements Filter {
        private static final Logger log = LoggerFactory.getLogger(CustomFilter.class);
        private Map<String, String> configProperties;
    
        @Override
        public void init(APIConfig apiConfig, Map<String, String> configProperties) {
            this.configProperties = configProperties;
        }
    
        @Override
        public boolean handleRequest(RequestContext requestContext) {
            String headerValue = configProperties.get("CustomProperty");
            requestContext.addOrModifyHeaders("Custom-header-1", headerValue);
            return true;
        }
    }
    ```

> 3. Since we use Java SPI (Service Provider Interface), we need to provide the provider configuration file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Since you are using Java SPI (Service Provider Interface), you need to provide the provider configuration file
```

`META-INF/services/org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.Filter`. If you are using Apache Maven, create the
file inside the `<PROJECT>/src/main/resources` directory. The content of the file needs to be the qualified class name
of the filter implementation.

    ```
    org.example.tests.CustomFilter
    ```

4. Build the project and create the JAR file. For Apache Maven, use the following.

    ```
    mvn clean install
    ```

> 5. Edit the enforcer related configuration within the config.toml file to include the custom filter. The `className` needs to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Edit the Enforcer related configuration within the config.toml file to include the custom filter. The `className` needs to
```
